feat(docs): adding java example (#5)
scylladb/scylla-cloud-getting-started: docs/java.md

# Quick Start: Java with ScyllaDB

> In this tutorial you'll build a Media Player to store your songs and build playlists.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this tutorial, you'll build a Media Player to store your songs and build playlists.
```

## 1. Getting the Driver

Install the [Java ScyllaDB Driver](https://java-driver.docs.scylladb.com/scylla-3.11.2.x/index.html).
```
<dependency>
  <groupId>com.scylladb</groupId>
  <artifactId>java-driver-core</artifactId>
  <version>3.11.2.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.scylladb</groupId>
  <artifactId>java-driver-query-builder</artifactId>
  <version>3.11.2.0</version>
</dependency>

<dependency>
  <groupId>com.scylladb</groupId>
  <artifactId>java-driver-mapper-runtime</artifactId>
  <version>3.11.2.0</version>
</dependency>
```

## 2. Connecting to the Cluster

> Get your database credentials from your [ScyllaDB Cloud Dashboard](https://cloud.scylladb.com/clusters) in the tab `Connect`.

Reviewer: Across the docs, we refer to it as `your ScyllaDB Cloud cluster’s` view, so I think we should be consistent (Cluster View is not a proper name or a proper UI element name).

```java
import com.datastax.driver.core.Cluster;
import com.datastax.driver.core.ResultSet;
import com.datastax.driver.core.Session;
import com.datastax.driver.core.PlainTextAuthProvider;
import com.datastax.driver.core.policies.DCAwareRoundRobinPolicy;

class Main {  
  
    public static void main(String[] args) {  
        Cluster cluster = Cluster.builder()  
            .addContactPoints("your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud")  
            .withLoadBalancingPolicy(DCAwareRoundRobinPolicy.builder().withLocalDc("AWS_US_EAST_1").build()) // your local data center  
            .withAuthProvider(new PlainTextAuthProvider("scylla", "*******"))  
            .build();  
        
        Session session = cluster.connect();  
        ResultSet result = session.execute("SELECT * FROM system.clients LIMIT 10");  
  
        System.out.println(result);
    }
}
```

### 3.1 Creating a Keyspace

The `keyspace` inside the ScyllaDB ecosystem can be interpreted as your `database` or `collection`.

> On your connection boot, you don't need to provide it but you will use it later and also is able to create when you need.

Reviewer: This sentence is not clear. I'm adding a suggestion below, but I'm not sure this is what you want to say. Anyway, this sentence requires rewording.

`You don't need a keyspace on your connection boot, but you'll need it to create a table.`

Author: It was exactly what I meant. The idea is to explain that you don't need a keyspace/database to use it. 

Thanks for the rephrasing!

class Main {  
  
    public static void main(String[] args) { 
        Cluster cluster = Cluster.builder()  
            .addContactPoints("your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud")  
            .withLoadBalancingPolicy(DCAwareRoundRobinPolicy.builder().withLocalDc("AWS_US_EAST_1").build()) // your local data center  
            .withAuthProvider(new PlainTextAuthProvider("scylla", "*******"))  
            .build();  
            
            Session session = cluster.connect();  

            String createKeyspaceQuery = createKeyspace("media_player")  
                .ifNotExists()  
                .with()  
                .replication(ImmutableMap.of("class", "NetworkTopologyStrategy", "replication_factor", 3))  
                .durableWrites(true)  
                .getQueryString();

            session.execute(createKeyspaceQuery)
     }
}
```

> After that you probably will need to re-create your connection poiting which `keyspace` you want to use.

### 3.2 Creating a Table

> A table is used to store part or all of your app data (depending on how structure your database schema). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A table stores part or all of your app data (depending on how you structure your database schema). 
```

            .withLoadBalancingPolicy(DCAwareRoundRobinPolicy.builder().withLocalDc("AWS_US_EAST_1").build()) // your local data center  
            .withAuthProvider(new PlainTextAuthProvider("scylla", "*******"))  
            .build();  
            
            Session session = cluster.connect();  

            ResultSet songsResult = session.execute("SELECT * FROM media_player.songs PER PARTITION LIMIT 1");
            List<Row> songList = results.all();

            for (Row row : resultsmemo) {
                System.out.println(
                    String.format(
                            "ID: %d -> Song: %s -> Artist: %s -> Album: %s -> Created At: %s",
                            row.getInt("id"),
                            row.getString("title"),
                            row.getString("artist"),
                            row.getString("album"),
                            row.getTimestamp("created_at").toString()
                    )
            );
        }
     }
}
```

### 3.4 Updating Data

Ok, almost there! Now we're going to learn about `UPDATE` but here's a disclaimer: 
> INSERT and UPDATES are not the same!

> There's a myth in Scylla/Cassandra community that it's the same for the fact that you just need the `Partition Key` and `Clustering Key` (if you have one) and query it.

Reviewer 2: I think UPDATE and INSERT are the same (or very similar)
If we claim its not, we need to explain why.

Reviewer: INSERT and UPDATE are almost identical. The only difference is the so-called _cql row marker_ that is added by INSERT but not by UPDATE. I think the information is not necessary here and should be removed.

Author: Removed.

> Read more about [`INSERT` and `UPDATE`](https://docs.scylladb.com/stable/using-scylla/cdc/cdc-basic-operations.html)

Reviewer 2: Look like the wrong URL (CDC)

Reviewer: The exact link is https://docs.scylladb.com/stable/using-scylla/cdc/cdc-basic-operations.html#digression-the-difference-between-inserts-and-updates, but I think it should be removed anyway (see my comment above).

> As you can see, the `UPDATE` query takes two fields in the `WHERE` clause (PK and CK). Check the snippet below: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `UPDATE` query takes two fields in the `WHERE` clause (PK and CK). See the snippet below: 
```

            .withAuthProvider(new PlainTextAuthProvider("scylla", "*******"))  
            .build();  
            
            Session session = cluster.connect();  

            PreparedStatement statement = session.prepare(
                "UPDATE songs set title = ? where id = ? AND updated_at = ?"
            );

            BoundStatement bound = statement.bind()
                    .setLong(0, 1)
                    .setString(1, "Rock and Roll")                    
                    .setTimestamp(2, new Date());

            session.execute(bound);
     }
}
```

After the data gets inserted, query all columns and filter by the ID:
```
scylla@cqlsh:media_player> select * from songs where id = 1;

id | updated_at                      | album       | artist | created_at                      | title
---+---------------------------------+-------------+--------+---------------------------------+----------------------------
 1 | 2023-03-02 22:00:00.000000+0000 | Smithereens |   Joji | 2023-03-02 22:00:00.000000+0000 |              Glimpse of Us
 1 | 2023-03-02 23:10:00.000000+0000 |        null |   null |                            null | Glimpse of US - Inutilismo
```

> It only updated the field `title` and `updated_at` (the Clustering Key) and since we didn't input the rest of the data, it will not be replicated as expected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It only updated the field `title` and `updated_at` (the Clustering Key), and since we didn't input the rest of the data, it will not be replicated as expected.
```

### 3.5 Deleting Data

> Last things last! Let's understand what we can DELETE with this statement. There's the normal `DELETE` statement that focus on `ROWS` and other one that delete data only from `COLUMNS` and the syntax is very similar.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last things last! Let's understand what we can DELETE with this statement. There's the regular `DELETE` statement that focuses on `ROWS` and the other one that deletes data only from `COLUMNS`. The syntax is very similar.
```

> Last things last! Let's understand what we can DELETE with this statement. There's the normal `DELETE` statement that focus on `ROWS` and other one that delete data only from `COLUMNS` and the syntax is very similar.

Author: This is something that in Portuguese makes sense and I literally translated it. I'll remove it.

```sql 
// Deletes a single row
DELETE FROM songs WHERE id = d754f8d5-e037-4898-af75-44587b9cc424;

> // Deletes a whole column

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// Deletes a cell
```

DELETE artist FROM songs WHERE id = d754f8d5-e037-4898-af75-44587b9cc424;
```

> If you want to erase a specific column, you also should pass as parameter the `Clustering Key` and be very specific in which register you want to delete something. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you want to delete a specific cell, you also should pass as parameter the `Clustering Key` and be very specific in which column you want to delete something. 
```

Cell is the value of one coulmn in a row

> On the other hand, the "normal delete" just need the `Partition Key` to handle it. Just remember: if you use the statement "DELETE FROM <table>" it will delete ALL the rows that you stored with that ID. 

Reviewer 2: Not sure why its normal.
Maybe parition delete?

Reviewer: I suggested "regular" instead of "normal" above. Anyway, we should avoid using "normal" in the docs.

import java.util.Date;
import java.util.Scanner;

class Main {  
  
    public static void main(String[] args) { 
        Cluster cluster = Cluster.builder()  
            .addContactPoints("your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud", "your-node-url.7207ca5a8fdc45f2b03f.clusters.scylla.cloud")  
            .withLoadBalancingPolicy(DCAwareRoundRobinPolicy.builder().withLocalDc("AWS_US_EAST_1").build()) // your local data center  
            .withAuthProvider(new PlainTextAuthProvider("scylla", "*******"))  
            .build();  
            
            Session session = cluster.connect();  

            PreparedStatement statement = session.prepare(
                "DELETE FROM songs where id = ?"
            );

            BoundStatement bound = statement.bind()
                    .setLong(0, 1);

            session.execute(bound);
     }
}
```

## Conclusion

Yay! You now have the knowledge to use the basics of ScyllaDB with Java.

There is a simple project with this structure that you can check it out [here](https://github.com/DanielHe4rt/scylladb-java-getting-started).

> If you thinks that something can be improved, please open an issue and let's make it happen!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you think that something can be improved, please open an issue, and let's make it happen!
```
